MITRE D3FEND Glossary - Gleaned from the MITRE D3fend Ontology  and MITRE Resources  (Work in progress....)

D3FEND - Provides a "... model of defensive techniques and artifacts ..... (and a) ...methodology for curating content into new knowledge and tying it to its source 
information in meaningful ways." Source: Toward a Knowledge Graph of Cybersecurity Countermeasures by Peter E. Kaloroumakis & M.J.Smith (MITRE). 
Website: https://d3fend.mitre.org/resources/D3FEND.pdf 

D3FEND's Long-term Goals -1. To "create a sustainable knowledge framework for characterizing and relating cybersecurity countermeasure technology; and 
                          2. To "accelerate knowledge discovery and acquisition efforts required to keep pace with technological changes in the cyber domain"
                          (P.Kaloroumakis & M.Smith)
                          
D3FEND Organization Approach - Kaloroumakis & Smith state that "There are three key information organization approaches ... used to create D3FEND: 
1. A conceptual framework which “explains, either graphically or in narrative form, the main things to be studied—the key factors, constructs, or variables—and
the presumed relationships among them”. 
2. A domain knowledge model which “is used to reduce conceptual and terminological confusion” and foster communication, reusability, and cooperation. 
3. A knowledge graph which provides a flexible representation of knowledge and enables complex machine reasoning about the domain."
                          
D3FEND Analyst - "A D3FEND analyst is a cybersecurity analyst who authors one or more D3FEND analyses" - Source: Mitre D3fend Ontology

D3FEND Analysis - "A D3FEND analysis asserts which defensive techniques were determined to be implemented a product." ... "D3FEND analysis things are supplementary 
concepts that allow for specifying and documenting product instantiations of the capabilities defined D3FEND Framework" - Source: Mitre D3fend Ontology

D3FEND Analysis Object - 

D3FEND Knowledeg Base Object - 

D3FEND Model -  "A knowledge graph of cybersecurity countermeasures" - Source: Mitre D3fend Website (https://d3fend.mitre.org/about) 

D3FEND Product - 

D3FEND Ontology - See https://protege.stanford.edu/publications/ontology_development/ontology101-noy-mcguinness.html

D3FEND Tools - 

D3FEND Things - "D3FEND Things are concepts defined in the core D3FEND Framework" - Source: Mitre D3fend Ontology

Ontology - "An ontology defines a common vocabulary for researchers who need to share information in a domain. It includes machine-interpretable definitions of basic 
concepts in the domain and relations among them" Source: N. Noy and D. McGuiness (2000) https://protege.stanford.edu/publications/ontology_development/ontology101-noy-mcguinness.html 

User  - "is a person [or agent] who uses a computer or network service. Users generally use a system or a software product without the technical expertise required to 
fully understand it. Power users  - use advanced features of programs, though they are not necessarily capable of computer programming and system administration. 
A user often has a user account and is identified to the system by a username (or user name). Other terms for username include login name, screenname (or screen name),
nickname (or nick) and handle, which is derived from the identical Citizen's Band radio term. Some software products provide services to other systems and have no 
direct end users " -  Source: Mitre D3fend Ontology 
